9.0 GENERAL MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORTIVE CARE
Patients with acute ischemic stroke require attention to airway,
breathing, and circulation (ABC).
Recommendations
• Supplemental oxygen should be administered to maintain oxygen saturation >94%.
• Patients who have elevated blood pressure and are otherwise eligible for treatment with
IV rtPA should have their blood pressure carefully lowered so that their systolic blood
pressure is <185 mmHg and their diastolic blood pressure is <110 mmHg before
fibrinolytic therapy is initiated.
• Blood pressure should be maintained below 180/105 mmHg for at least the first 24 hours
after IV rtPA treatment.
• Sources of hyperthermia (temperature >38°C) should be identified and treated, and
antipyretic medications should be administered to lower temperature in hyperthermic
patients with stroke.
• Hypoglycemia (blood glucose <60 mg/dL) should be treated in patients with acute
ischemic stroke.
• DVT prophylaxis should be initiated in the early phase except in patients who are
thrombolysed in which case it should be started 24 hours after IV tPA administration
10.0 DEFINITIVE TREATMENT
10.1 Intravenous thrombolysis
Recombinant Tissue-Type Plasminogen Activator has been shown to improve outcomes.27
Recommendations13
➢ IV rtPA should be administered to eligible patients within 4.5 hours of symptom
onset after excluding contraindications.
➢ Blood pressure should be lowered to below 185/110 mmHg before initiating
thrombolysis and maintained below 180/105 mmHg for 24 hours afterwards.
12.0 STROKE REHABILITATION
Evidence describes rehabilitation as a major contributor to positive outcomes for stroke
survivors.27 The effects of stroke cannot be reversed but rehabilitation should be aimed to improve
function and/or prevent deterioration of function.
Recommendations
o All patients including those with severe stroke, who are not receiving palliative care,
should be assessed by a specialist rehabilitation team before discharge from hospital
regarding their suitability for ongoing rehabilitation.180
o A future follow-up assessment and/or revaluation for patients discharged into long-term
care, to identify opportunities to access public rehabilitation services is also needed,
where appropriate.
o Rehabilitation is part of the continuum of care that has to be offered in outpatient or
inpatient settings. Home-based rehabilitation is being commonly practiced and can be
encouraged.
